hey everyone it's neil patel and today
i'm going to be teaching you about
facebook ads if you miss any of the
previous lessons in this course facebook
unlocked you can find them all at
neilpatel.com training just click on
facebook unlocked and you'll also find
there underneath each lesson the cheat
sheets the worksheets the pdfs the
handouts that'll make
each of the lessons easier so you can
get to zero to 100 000 followers or
technically 200 000 followers much
quicker so what's the big deal about
facebook ads well facebook ads is
massive mark zuckerberg is one of the
richest people in the world not because
you know people like him or hate him
neither really of those matter it's more
so he's successful and rich because
there's all these people on facebook and
you can leverage ads to reach those
people and it drives tons of revenue
this is why shopify is really big sure
shopify built a good product but a lot
of people are creating these ecommerce
sites and using facebook ads to generate
sales if you haven't used facebook ads
you're missing out it's bigger than any
tv company they hold a ton of power
google ads and facebook ads are super
effective so i highly recommend that you
use them and if you're not leveraging
them just go through this lesson even if
you are still go through this lesson
because i'm gonna have something special
for you at the end which are templates
that'll make your life easier with ads
the way it works is auction system
people bid
and if whoever ends up bidding the most
and assuming that generates facebook the
most money and the reason i say that is
just because you bid more than the
competition doesn't mean
they will make more from you because if
you bid two dollars and your competition
bits you know
one dollar but they generate ten times
more clicks than you well facebook's
gonna show their stuff more than yours
and the reason being is depending on how
the ads set up they tend to generate
more money from the ads that get more
clicks and have a much higher ctr than
the ones that have a lower ctr
and that's why they also look at things
like ad quality and action rates right
how many people actually click buy
purchase
because if facebook knows that you win
and your ad is successful you'll keep
spending more
we often see that relevant ads often
cost less and see more results and this
way go back to the thing in the example
of click through rates if your ad shown
a lot and it has a much higher
click-through rate than someone else has
who's shown as equal
yours is going to do much better so
don't just look at hey i want to go
credit adam spend a lot of money i would
first recommend that you check out the
facebook ad library where you can put in
any of your competitors pages and you
can see the ads that are working from
really well this will give you ideas of
where to start
you can also start with manual bidding
so when you're setting up an ad manual
bidding is just as simple as selecting
bids what are you willing to pay for a
impression a click
conversion and manual bidding is really
simple because it has a lot of variables
for you know you want to bid for the
highest value
you can control your return on ad spend
you can also do things like have a
target costs there's also lowest cost
using the lowest cost bid strategy is
recommended if you care more about
spending your entire budget to spend
your budget as effective as possible
this bidding strategy tends to be the
best in others what it does is it tells
facebook to bid with the objective of
getting you the lowest possible cost per
event
um funny enough one of my guys
ad guys tends to use this a lot on some
of my campaigns because i'm trying to
brand awareness and once i know my ideal
segment i'm just trying to go out there
and get as many impressions within my
segment at the lowest cost
there's also bid caps you want to make
sure that you don't spend too much and
this is what the bid cap is cost cap is
something similar but for cost as well
in which you want to make sure you're
getting the lowest cost per event
and it can average out you know things
like all right here's your total budget
here is what you're looking to spend per
a conversion per
you know a click whatever end up maybe
that you are optimizing for
if you haven't used a facebook pixel you
need to start using this
this will help facebook determine when
you have conversions and when you don't
if they can track a conversion whether
it's an email a purchase or any other
thing that you want like a lead
it can allow facebook to better optimize
who they show the ads to because they
can find similar people which will then
help you generate way more conversions
and spend less money to be successful in
advertising you need to also understand
the facebook auction and then of course
targeting as well the facebook auction
formula is total value equals advertiser
bid times estimated action rates plus
relevancy and quality it really is that
simple and when it comes to targeting
you have options like location age
gender languages interest behavior
connections the more you use yeah you're
going to end up being able to target
less people but that's a good thing
because you only want to spend money on
the people that have a really high shot
of converting that's also why do custom
audiences where you can upload your
existing customer list and they'll find
other people who match those users or
you can pixel your page and remarket
them or even better you can do things
like look-alike audiences so look like
audiences says hey here are all my
customers go find me other customers who
are identical to this
from an aspect of one percent two
percent three percent and the more
leniency you get facebook the more
people will build a target but typically
the conversions aren't as great i also
recommend that you layer targeting
right you don't have to just use one
targeting type remember you can use as
many as possible
by doing this again you are much more
likely to generate the conversions
you're looking for versus if you just go
too broad for example
if a lot of people visit your site are
interested in gaming even though you
have a business product well it doesn't
mean that if you just target gamers
you're going to do well you probably
would burn a lot of money get very
little conversions you need to layer all
these things on top of each other to
maximize your sales
and you're going to get these sales
through images or videos or
in other words any ad type and i want to
go over a few of the ad types image
ratios tend to be 1.91 by 1
2 4 to 5.
upload the highest resolution images
available because people don't want to
see blurry ones and images that consist
of more than 20 percent uh text maybe
reduced deliverability so try to keep
your text and max of 125 characters too
much text they'll even warn you and give
you notice on facebook saying it may not
perform as well
there's also an instant experience
instant experience is a full screen post
click experience people can see
entertaining videos and photographs and
an instant experience they swipe through
carousels complete a form access items
easily and it's just a easy way to
convert people
with instant experiences you may find
that the conversion rates to a full
close may not always be as great as you
want but it's worth testing
also try out a collection a collection
is experience that involves a cover
image or video followed by several
images of a product
so they'll land on an instant experience
when someone clicks on a collection ad a
full screen experience that drives
engagement and nurtures interest and
intent the image or video may be a max
of one to one headline roughly 25
characters and text 90 characters
your ad similar to google google has
quality score facebook has relevant
scores for ads from the quality the
engagement to conversion rates this all
gives facebook idea if they should show
your ad more less you know they don't
just look at how much are you spending
because if you spend a hundred dollars a
click and no one wants to click on your
ads and someone spends a dollar but
they're going to get tons of clicks
they're gonna go with the one that is a
dollar because it has a much better
relevant score
when you're managing your ads there's
the ad managers within facebook and that
allows you to manage your ads not just
on facebook but also through messenger
instagram and any other future platforms
that they either end up acquiring or
they end up integrating within the whole
facebook ad ecosystem ad manager is
amazing too they have a lot of great
analytics if you haven't make sure you
check it out
when you're setting all this up choose
the right bidding strategy there's so
many options you can automate it you can
do it manual
what i recommend is whatever you decide
to take make sure you have conversion
tracking set in place because if you
don't have conversion tracking set in
place
you won't be able to
optimize your bidding instead you'll
just be playing a guessing game
and
having that conversion tracking set in
place by putting the facebook pixel on
your site it'll allow you to control
your bidding it'll ensure that you can
be profitable and it can ensure that
when it's time and when you're ready you
can scale up your ad so you can spend
fifty a hundred two hundred three
hundred thousand 000 whatever it may be
even million dollars a month and that's
why it's super important for conversion
tracking because i've seen so many
business not knowing their metrics and
they just start going and bidding next
thing you know they spend all this money
literally hundreds and thousands they
think they're doing well and all of a
sudden it hits them that they're
starting to lose money
and even when you set things up
correctly and things could be working
you also find that as you scale
sometimes the metrics just get out of
whack and they're not profitable anymore
which is why you need to keep optimizing
your budget
optimizing your spend optimizing your ad
making sure you don't have fatigue if
your frequency of your ads starts
getting well above one like two three
that means people are seeing your ads
too frequently and your cost is just
going to skyrocket through the roof
again i can't emphasize this enough it's
one of the biggest mistakes we see at
our ad agency neil patel digital just
too many people aren't tracking
conversions and tracking them will help
make things much better in the long run
so some best practices for you for
aspect ratios for image ads on facebook
a lot of people are using smartphones
think of it this way facebook generates
more average or more revenue from
smartphones and mobile phones than they
do from desktop computers so pick
formats that fit both desktop and mobile
devices and that's very very important
so i recommend if you're doing feed
placements using a square of one-to-one
images uh and for vertical videos you go
four to five for story placements go 9
to 16 because people tend to hold up
their phone vertical instead of sideways
for
carousels right with videos i recommend
the one-to-one ratio for in-stream video
again uh i would do 16 by nine because
over a lot of these people end up
holding up their phone sideways
for audience network placements i
recommend going vertical at 9 16.
i also have tons of templates for you
and this was my gift to you i hope you
enjoy this you can end up finding these
templates and they work for any type of
industry this will help you get started
at neilpatel.com
slash training click on facebook
unlocked and under week two this will be
the second lesson you can find all the
templates the worksheets and everything
that goes along with this course to get
you the best results if you need help
with your facebook advertising you can
also check out my ad agency neil patel
digital where we help people scale and
grow their campaigns
or if you just have any questions or
comments you can leave a comment below
i'll answer and help you out if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
the people about it and make sure you
subscribe to the channel thank you